# Release v4.5.0
Date: 2014-12-01

## Description
This release includes:
- Decrease of priority in parser's specialchars.
- An important bug was fixed: the memory in the loops.
- Bug fix: div::getFileContents().
- Improved global design vars in loops and capsules.
- Bug fix: div::fileExists and wrong include paths calculation.
- Memory fixed.
- Some bug fixes.
- Added new important security feature: setup literals items/vars, for prevent injections.
- Allowed is_array PHP function in macros.
- New method for add literal vars in PHP: div::addLiteral();.
- Fixed macros parsing when a previous template var never match.
- Fixed the memory in the loops.
- Security fix: prevent obtrusive code in method calls. Now next code doesn't work.
- New feature for preprocessed templates: specific data.
- Bug fix: Parse pre-processed templates with all items/vars (Div doesn't know the future).
- Bug fix: Adding items to array in templates.
- Bug fix: Don't set item var as design var in div::parseData();.
- Bigfix: Save sections of loops and capsules when makeItAgain(); (Div doesn't know the future).
- Big fix: Set the priority to inline data in pre-processed templates above global design vars.
- Bug fixed and improved - Parsing orphan's parts while checksum not change. Do it because the orphans's parts stop the parser and the results are ugly.
- Bug fix: Parsing macros inside preprocessed templates. New argument $min_level for parse() method.
- Added new allowed functions in macros, formulas and expressions: array_keys get_object_vars is_object.
- Allowed T_BREAK token in macros for foreach and other loops. Then, the follow macro is an error.
- New feature: advanced options/params for includes.
- Bug fix: Preparing allowed methods before execute the macros.
- Bug fix in parsePreprocessed() when $pdata is null.
- Bug fix with number formats inside loops.
- Bug fix parseData() vs parseMatch() logical order.
- New setup var: div.clear_locations (= true by default). This means that the locations will be clear or not at the end (parse_level = 0). Then, the components are more flexible with **pre-processed templates**.
- Improved performance changing $vars with __temp['vars'] var in parseMacros(); because because get_defined_vars return also vars.
- Prevented infinite loops in div::cop();.
- Improved div::isValidPHPCode().
- Some bug fixes.

## Commits
- No commits found.
